---
title: "Assessing the Risk Profile of CyberTech Solutions and Implementing a Security Policy"
date: 2024-10-02
draft: false
tags: ["Cybersecurity", "Risk Assessment", "Security Policy", "Network Security", "Password Policy", "Incident Response", "Data Protection", "Employee Training"]
categories: ["Cybersecurity", "Risk Management", "Information Security", "IT Governance"]
author: "Kelvin Kiplagat"
summary: "An in-depth assessment of CyberTech Solutions' security risks and the development of a security policy to mitigate vulnerabilities, covering password policies, patch management, network security, data backup, and employee training."
canonical_url: "https://medium.com/@kiplagatkelvin034/assess-the-risk-profile-of-cybertech-solutions-and-create-a-basic-security-policy-that-addresses-17a7ae827fea"
---

# Assess the risk profile of CyberTech Solutions and create a basic security policy that addresses.

### Assess the **risk profile** of CyberTech Solutions and create a basic security policy that addresses the vulnerabilities found.

<figure id="899c" class="graf graf--figure graf-after--h3">
<img
src="https://cdn-images-1.medium.com/max/800/1*1xrHgTQb3yRfSZ7h24he3g.png"
class="graf-image" data-image-id="1*1xrHgTQb3yRfSZ7h24he3g.png"
data-width="1102" data-height="259" data-is-featured="true" />
</figure>

CyberTech Solutions Group Security Policy and Standards. CyberTech
Solutions operates under the premise which was defined in its third
party systems security policy, which does include everything how
acceptable use of Systems and Data is ensured and Globalization Date .
To attain this goal, we developed a safe workplace policy that describes
the tools and processes that define the scope of protection of our
systems, networks, and personnel from cyber attacks. This clinical
policy also lays down supporting procedures for procuring and
implementing security measures for everybody including employees and
vendors working for or with CyberTech Solutions.

**Password Policy Password**

management requires implementing a carefully elaborated strategy in
order to prevent unwanted access to insider data. Each employee is
required to keep his/her password secure and must abide by the following
limits:

• Minimum Password Length: Passwords must be a minimum of 12 characters
in length.

• Complexity Requirements: Passwords must be composed of uppercase and
lowercase letters, special symbols, and numbers.

• Password Expiration: Employees are required to change their passwords
not later than every 90 days. It will be noted that an appropriate time
will be set for updating the password and its users will be notified.

• Password History: Users must not use the same password as any of their
5 last passwords used.

• Account Lockouts: If a wrong password is entered five times in a row,
the account will be blocked for a period of 15 minutes in order to cut
off any possible intrusions.

• Multi Factor Authentication (MFA): MFA is mandatory policy for all
employees which implements the use of passwords together with some other
verification methods calming to these systems.

Rationale: Strong password policies prevent access to sensitive
information by the non-authorized people in the organization. Access
protection is enhanced further by MFA policies to the employees. Discuss
and Amendment of Policies and Regulations. Update Some Policy Documents
including the Four Policies above:

Software Update and Patch Management Policy Management of critical
information system configuration changes is defined as prevention of
clustering of Systems failures. Unpatched software poses a serious
security risk and can be exploited easily resulting to loss of data or
interruption in services.

• Automated Patch Management: All System and application must have an
automated patch management software installed in the installation of the
system and application to ensure that patches are applied timely.

• Critical Patches: Critical security updates should be done in 72 hours
after release specific for critical compulsory security aspects which
deal with the characteristics which are weaknesses that could endanger
the system.

• Routine Updates: Non-critical patching updates are followed and
installed within the regular defined periods for the maintenance of the
system.

• Patch Testing: It is required that patches are validated on the
operational systems within a test environment.

• Software Registry: A centralized registry of software will be included
to enable tracking of software version numbers, licenses acquired for
software and any software updates done in the organization.

• Third Party Software: The company will carry out security checks on
other companies' software before they are made to install on any
company's devices or networks.

Rationale: The risk of attack exploiting software is contained since a
company's software security through vulnerability remains updated with
recent threats that are on the market today.

**Network Security Policy**

As far as CyberTech Solutions is concerned, its focus in seeking
security extends to the network security posture of the organization
through controlling access, monitoring network traffic, implanting
firewalls and other components of security.

• Access will be granted to sensitive systems and data on last
principles, i.e. a user will only be allowed to use what is necessary to
his or her job if any of the system and data.

• Firewall Configuration. The configuration of firewalls will be such
that it will allow for filtering of transmission in either direction
from the organization. Transmissions coming from the outside will be
restricted to a certain range and also to certain services.

• Virtual Private Network (VPN): Remotely accessing the company's
internal systems will be done through an encrypted VPN, therefore any
communication between workers and company systems will not be
intercepted and decryption will be impossible.

• Intrusion Detection and Prevention Systems (IDPS): There is a need to
deploy IDPS solutions throughout the network against monitoring and
analyzing the traffic and taking action on any possible dangers
proactively m Responding systems threats encountered on a proactive
approach to threats posed by traffic.

• Network Segmentation: All the networks in the Organization will be
divided into multiple zones (public, internal, restricted) so as to
prevent unauthorized individuals from accessing critical resources
within the organization at any point.

• Encryption: Encryption must be enforced with key management and access
control as with all sensitive communication over the internet to prevent
exposure to threats and risks, all sensitive information transferred
over the network is well protected using dispersion of High secured
protocols, Imagine of their domestic use of TLS, SSL.

Rationale: The Rationale is that when appropriate network security
measures are put in place, it is easier to prevent access by
unauthorized persons and contain the impact of any security breach that
might happen to a limited scope within the sections cut off from the
network.

**Data Backup and Recovery Policy**

Like any organization, data is the lifeline of CyberTech Solutions and
that is why it must be safeguarded against loss through any means
including malevolent action, power outages or human error.

• Backup Frequency: All Institute mission critical information included
hard copy restoration processes should be ensured. They must be backed
up on a daily basis in addition to having hardware on as well as cloud
based secure offsite storage for backups.

• Backup Encryption: Measures must be put in place to ensure backup data
stays safe both in point of storage and in the middle of transportation.

• Disaster Recovery Testing: Dissaster recovery planning encompasses
recovery of data in TO's ideally every six months to effectively return.
Operations to nondisaster levels.

• Offsite Storage: Copies of backups should be stored in a separate and
safe place which is not readily available in order to safeguard them
from environmental or physical damage.

Rationale: Regular backups allow a business to be operational at all
times and especially during cyber threats or failures that impede the
system, given that these backups are timely restored.

Employee Training and Awareness

Employees are the first responders to any cyber threat. This is why
there is a need for periodic training in order to avoid breaches that
would be traced to human errors.

• Employees' role: Cybersecurity Awareness Training: Annually training
of all employees on cybersecurity topics is mandatory. Contents include
phishing strategies' concepts, secure disposal/recycling of sensitive
information, and reporting of breaches/incidents.

• Employees' role: Phishing Simulations: Employees' readiness will be
put into test by conducting phishing simulations which will be done from
time to time by the company.

• Employees' role: Incident Reporting: Whereupon identification, all
personnel should report any suspicious activity or security incidents to
IT security for follow up.

Rationale: Due to the fact that the internal staff of CyberTech
Solutions is sufficiently familiarized with the urgent and efficient
examples of security, it is minimised that a breach of security
compromises a person's performance.

**Conclusion**

CyberTech Solutions takes into account all measures of protecting the
company's information from any threats and risks existing now and in the
future.

To minimize the cyber risks faced by the company, it is important to put
into action robust password policies, fix software on a regular basis,
protect the network, do the data back up, and encourage positive
attitudes towards security.

By [Kiplagatkelvin](https://medium.com/@kiplagatkelvin034){.p-author
.h-card} on [October 2, 2024](https://medium.com/p/17a7ae827fea).

[Canonical
link](https://medium.com/@kiplagatkelvin034/assess-the-risk-profile-of-cybertech-solutions-and-create-a-basic-security-policy-that-addresses-17a7ae827fea){.p-canonical}

Exported from [Medium](https://medium.com) on February 13, 2025.
